RAVINDER SONI PROJECT DETAILS FROM 2004 – 2014 

Project: Fault Ticket Management System. Company: WFX (World Fashion Exchange) (New Jersey), Location: Development Center at Gurgaon, India, My Job 
Title: Manager Product Development - Period: 2004 – 2006 Methodology 
Used: Waterfall Project Time: Six Months Number of Developers: Four Technology Used: MS SQL, VB.NET and ASP.NET Tools Used: MS Project, Visio, MS PowerPoint, Excel, Visual Source Safe Reports Prepared :GNATT Chart, Expense Report, Project Costing Vs Actual Billing Report, Planned Vs Actual Report, Lesson Learnt Report, Minutes of Meeting. Client: Internal (Customer Service, Product Development, Development Manager, QA and Release Manager, CIO) and External Clients (Installation Site User). Project Brief Description: A web based system to lodge complaints from the users of different department and forward to customer service center with time bound escalation to the higher level. Apart from complaint management this system was also used to know what most common types of complaints are and what is level of user satisfaction for the product released. The project was developed with following objectives 1.	Improvise the after sales service and make customer more confident in the company and its products. 2.	Product development. By knowing the most common types of complaints the future releases of the product was enhanced and patches were released for existing users. 3.	Save time in fault resolution. 4.	Improvise the performance of release management team and QA team. My Role: My role as a product manager was to oversee and control the entire life cycle of the product. Analysis Phase Starting from collecting business requirements, understanding the current process by conducting meetings with stakeholders and project sponsors, finalizing project objectives, choosing key persons for the team, preparing WBS and mile stones, coordinating with software development manager for estimating tentative time and effort, preparing roles and responsibility sheets, estimating project cost and viability and getting the final go ahead for the project. Design Phase Conducting design meetings with development team, making sure that design specs are in line with business requirements and if some additional features are to be provided then taking the approval from the stakeholders by justifying the effort and cost involved with benefits to be taken with new features. Looking into the historical releases of similar types projects and going through LESSON LEARNT REPORTS (Specific to this company). Deciding requirements for tools and making sure that we can get it before the development phase (both Hardware and Software). Progress of the project was reported to the management and its stakeholders. In case possible delays flags were raised and meetings with responsible team or individual were conducted for resolving the issues. Development Phase In the development phase, I was involved in code review and front end review. I was making sure that all the classes and its libraries were made with proper commenting with brief objectives of the code along with its names of dependent sub class and its superclass. I was also making sure that version control is in place and proper backup of it is maintained. Assuring all the development is passed to testing environment with QA team by keeping the daily record of the development progress of modules and its testing. Recording Change Requests from QA with details of its date of request, module number and type of change (minor/major), description of change, initial release date of module from development team and its version number along with recording the phase of testing (unit testing, integration testing, system testing or user acceptance testing). Once the module is passed UAT then it was considered to be ready. Depending upon the nature of the module it was kept on hold or passed to next phase. I was reporting the progress of project to its stake holders and management. If it was found that there is delay the issue was addressed on immediate basis with objective to overcome. It was only escalated to next level if it remains unresolved or some senior help was needed. Keeping the teams motivated was also my major job as I tried to keep all the members of the team motivated by publicly recognizing their effort in the company and also making them feel that how important they are for the project. Implementation Phase (Training and handing over) Making sure that production environment is as per the recommendation from development team thus closing coordinating with procurement and installation team. I was also reviewing the user manuals and installation documentation in order to check its quality and easy to understand nature keeping the user prospective in mind. I was also conducting user training and making sure that they are using the software as per the user manual. I was also recoding the feedbacks and bugs if any from the actual users and reporting back to the development team in order help them to prepare future patches. Once all the modules were released and users were trained the project was shifted to next phase of monitoring. Monitoring the Implementation (Evaluation) This was the last phase to make sure that the product is running as per the requirement of the business and fine tuning required or any further suggestions for the next versions of the software are recorded in the project file. I was also involved in conducting project closing meeting where all the stakeholders were called along with the teams of different related departments. The complete recorded phases of the project were presented and discussed along with the strengths and weakness, achievements and pitfalls. Project: Web Based Complete Financial Accounting System for a Fashion House. Company: WFX (World Fashion Exchange) (New Jersey), Location: Development Center at Gurgaon and Mumbai India, My Job Title: Manager Product Development - Period: 2004 – 2006 Methodology Used: Agile Technology Used: MS SQL, VB.NET, ASP.NET and JAVA Script. Project Period: One Year and Three Months. Number of Developers: Six Tools Used: MS Project, Visio, MS PowerPoint, Excel, Visual Source Safe Reports Prepared :GNATT Chart, Expense Report, Project Costing Vs Actual Billing Report, Planned Vs Actual Report, Lesson Learnt Report, Minutes of Meeting, Daily To Do Lists for the team members. Client: Accounting Department of a Leading Fashion House Project Brief Description: This project was enhancement to the existing product WFX ERP II which is production planning, Inventory and warehouse management system. The challenge was to study an existing successfully implemented product and find its cost and accounting related outputs and integrate with new accounting software in a seamless manner. This came as a requirement from a leading fashion house. A team of developers and project coordinators was deployed under my supervision at client side. Envision Stage I started talking to the stakeholders at client location and with the help of management I was able to identify team members for daily standups. I first of all collected their initial requirements and made a priority lists. The project objectives were defined and the team meetings were scheduled. Speculate The development time was estimated by accepting the user stories with the help of Fist of Five voting methodology. After arranging the list in order, the required features were discussed and prioritize in each item of the list. According to the priority the Sprints were designed ranging from 2 to 3 months clubbing the features of the modules to be released. The all the above were discussed in Daily Standups and on one on one meeting with team members and stakeholders. Any backlogs coming from previous UAT or changes were also taken into the consideration while preparing the priority lists. The SCRUM BOARD was updated with each meeting. Explore According to the priority lists the development team was instructed to start the development and report all the development done during the standup meeting along with bottle necks. I facilitated developers with all the information required from the client side and tried to resolve all the bottlenecks by discussing with related entities. Adaptation Once the sprint was ended the feature was sent for a UAT if success then it was put status as complete otherwise it was treated as artifact (backlog) and sent back to Speculate state as a backlog for rearranging the priority feature lists. Closing When all the sprints were on complete stage the project status was marked as complete and apart from this a parallel auditing of the software was being done by a certified accounting in order to ensure the accuracy of the accounting software. My background with ERP and Business accounting helped me to design the Database structure at Chart of Accounts which is the heart of any accounting package. The company rewarded me with Special Achievement Award for 2005-2006. •	Web Based Financial Accounting project was completed in much before target time with a team of seven developers resulting in reduction of development cost. •	In order to make the software more credible in market I played a key role to get the financial accounting system certified from a major accounting company. •	This product was later marketed as a finished product for global market. Project: Setting up a customer service call center and implementing in house CRM software Company: Sylmark Inc. 2006 - 2009 (Now as Ideal Living LLC) Location: Los Angeles, Delhi, India, Costa Rica My Job Title: Director Customer Service (Resources) Methodology Used: Waterfall Project Time: 1 Year 4 Months Technology Used: MS SQL, VB.NET and ASP.NET, Apache Servers, SIP Tools Used: MS Project, Visio, MS PowerPoint, Excel, Visual Source Safe Resources: Computer Hardware, Call Center Furniture, Facility, IP Telephones, SIP Software Human Resource: Call Center Operators, Supervisors, Manager, Trainers, QA Staff, Software Development/ Maintenance Team, Implementation Team Reports Prepared: GNATT Chart, Planned Vs Actual Report, Minutes of Meeting. Client: Internal Project Brief Description: This project is one the largest projects I ever handled in my career. It actively involved more than 200 personnel working to make it a success. Sylmark Inc. was one of the largest direct marketing companies having a call centers in Los Angles and Colorado with strength of over 250 seats. The main objective of the project was to reduce cost of customer service without compromising the quality. We all arrived at solution to shift the call centers to India and Costa Rica in order to cut the costs. The biggest challenge that how the quality of the call center will remain at par with existing call center. To resolve this issue a best available bilingual training teams was setup to train the staff at both the locations. As a servant leader of the project my job involved to look after every aspect of the project. Conduct daily telephonic meeting and make on site visits, negotiate with hardware / bandwidth vendors, discuss software development progress, resolve daily issues, find viable colocation of the servers, procure facility, conduct interviews, attend onsite training sessions. Attend QA meeting in order to review the progress of the training and implementation. Resolve Hardware and software issues. Major Accomplishments o	Over 1.5 million dollars were saved by outsourcing the process to offshore locations. o	Streamlined operational processes thereby enhanced efficiency by 25% and achieved cost reduction to the tune of 20%. o	Cost of operations was reduced by consolidating the vendor base. o	Quality Systems and standards of customer service were developed and implemented in the offshore locations. o	With increase in the workload a careful and strategic expansion of team was made from 15 people to over 108 people in a span of 3 years at the location of Delhi India. o	The timely deliverable s, team efforts and efficient project management made Company to generate additional revenue of 0.5 Million USD. Project: Lead Management / Daily Sales Reporting System for a Call Center Company: Sylmark Inc. 2006 - 2009 (Now as Ideal Living LLC) Location: Los Angeles, Delhi, India, Costa Rica My Job Title: Director Customer Service (Resources) Methodology Used: Waterfall Project Time: 3 Months Technology Used: MS SQL, VB.NET and ASP.NET, Apache Servers, SIP Tools Used: MS Project, Visio, MS PowerPoint, Excel, Visual Source Safe Reports Prepared: GNATT Chart, Planned Vs Actual Report, Minutes of Meeting. Client: Internal Project Brief Description: o	A Lead Management System for an outbound calling. Developed in Visual Basic. Net and MS SQL as Back end o	Done System Analysis and Designed, Developed from outsourced agency in India, Implemented. o	Completed and implemented in a record time of 3 months with a team of 3 developers and one QA. Passed all SIT and UAT on time. o	Tools Used: MS Project, Visio. • Daily Sales Reporting System. o	Developed in VB .Net to capture the sale of multiple items interfacing with call center database. o	Did requirement analysis, and designed the reports with help of other internal client requirements. o	Completed in and implemented in 2 month time. Project: Member Management System Company: St. Matthews Churches (Non-Profit Organization) Location: Tulsa Oklahoma, TX (2011 – December 2014) My Job Title: Deputy Director New Project Development. Methodology Used: Agile Project Time: 2 Year 3 Months Technology Used: FoxPro, MS SQL, VB.NET and ASP.NET Tools Used: MS Project, Visio, MS PowerPoint, Excel Reports Prepared: GNATT Chart, Planned Vs Actual Report, Minutes of Meeting. Client: Internal Project Brief Description: The Church as a philanthropic organization is required to run campaigns in order to expand its membership and also maintain its present members and keep the record of the donations. Although the problem seems to be very simple but it involves lot of hidden complexities like what are the areas giving more donations and what is the financial status of the community, who are most non donors and how to learn from the past campaigns? What is the cost involved in running a campaign. Every member was issued Tax certificate for deductions. My Role: My basic functionality involves overseeing the software development team and to ensure timely delivery and implementation of the software. Look after the infrastructure requirements. Conduct meetings with stake holders and understand their business requirements and interpreting these into software solutions. Generate project development plan. Conduct software teams meetings and review their development progress. Prepare task and responsibility lists and follow up with assigned team members. Resolve bottle necks with team members and clients. Maintain the database, which involves tuning and optimization; ensure the indexes are in proper order.